\input texinfo
@documentlanguage en
@settitle Bolt Plugin API Reference

@copying
This is the API reference manual for version 1.0 of Bolt Launcher's
Lua-based plugin loader. Bolt Launcher is free and open-source software.
The software itself, including by association all parts of its plugin
loader, are licensed under AGPL-3.

Copyright @copyright{} 2024 Adamcake

@quotation
Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Bolt Plugin API Reference
@author Adamcake
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@ifplaintext
@insertcopying
@end ifplaintext
@end titlepage

@node Top
@top Bolt Plugin API Reference

This is the API reference manual for version 1.0 of Bolt Launcher's API
for Lua plugins. All of the available functions and types are listed
along with a simple usage example.

@summarycontents

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

Bolt Launcher comes with a built-in plugin loader. A plugin loader is
not the same thing as plugins - the loader is what enables plugins to
be able to work, but it doesn't have any plugins built into it in
itself. Plugins can be made by anyone and must be obtained separately
from Bolt. This document details how to make your own Bolt plugins.

Plugins are written in Lua, but the plugin loader itself is a dynamic
library written in C. The launcher launches the game and loads the
library into the process using a manual map injector after the process
loads but before allowing it to run. When the library starts up, it
modifies the import table of the process to insert function hooks. If
that's all too technical for you, don't worry: you don't need to
understand any of that to be able to write plugins, but just know that
your Lua code runs directly inside the game process.

The word "inject" sounds scary, but Bolt is totally harmless: the
technique described above is the same one used by lots of software you
might already be using, such as OBS, Alt1@sup{1}, steam overlay, Discord
screencapture, or obs-vkcapture. Like those, Bolt only hooks external
graphics-related functions and will never attempt to read or modify the
game code, therefore it is entirely allowed under the terms of service
and will not trip any known anti-cheating measures@sup{2}. It does,
however, mean that it's less powerful than a tool like Runelite, since
the only information it has access to is what's available in the OpenGL
shaders; for example, it can see the vertex data and texture data of an
item being rendered, but cannot know the item ID.

(@sup{1} Yes, really.)

(@sup{2} That is NOT to claim that Bolt is undetectable. It's not -
nothing is.)

@node Getting Started
@chapter Getting Started

The primary file in a plugin is called "bolt.json". It needs to have
that exact name, in lower-case. Here's how your bolt.json might look:

@example json
@verbatim
{
  "name": "Goblin Helper",
  "version": "1.0",
  "description": "A plugin designed to help you kill goblins more effectively and display a graph of your GSE (goblin-slaughter efficiency)",
  "main": "main.lua"
}
@end verbatim
@end example

The directory that contains bolt.json is called the "plugin directory".
As a general rule, the plugin only has access to files inside the plugin
directory, and any file paths will be considered relative to the plugin
directory.

There are no limitations on the text contents or length of the  name,
version, or description, and the version and description are optional.
That said, it's suggested to use a short name (2-3 words), a longer and
helpful description, and a sensible system of version numbers.

The "main" file, in this case "main.lua", is the file that will be
loaded and run when a user starts your plugin. This file will be loaded
from the root of the plugin directory, next to bolt.json. If your main
file is in a subdirectory then you need to write the relative path using
'/' as directory separators, e.g. "app/src/main.lua".

Here's an example of a simple main.lua file. Lines beginning with
@verb{|--|} are comments in Lua.

@example lua
@verbatim
-- load the Bolt API
local bolt = require("bolt")

-- make sure this plugin is running on a Bolt version compatible with
-- the one it was written for (1.0)
bolt.checkversion(1, 0)

-- some variables we'll refer to later
local interval = 1000 * 1000
local clickcount = 0
local nextprinttime = bolt.time() + interval

-- set a function that will run every time the user clicks the game
-- window (excluding the title bar or any decorations) with the left,
-- middle, or right mouse button
bolt.onmousebutton(function (event)
  -- check if this is a left click using the event's button() function,
  -- and if it is, count it
  if event:button() == 1 then
    clickcount = clickcount + 1
  end
end)

-- set a function that will run every time SwapBuffers is called - in
-- other words, this runs at the end of every frame, so around 100 times
-- per second depending on the user's FPS
bolt.onswapbuffers(function (event)
  -- check if the time interval (1 second) has passed yet
  if bolt.time() >= nextprinttime then
    -- print a message
    print(string.format("clicks-per-second: %s", tostring(clickcount)))

    -- reset the click count and update the interval timer
    clickcount = 0
    nextprinttime = nextprinttime + interval
  end
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

As you can see, this is a simple plugin which keeps track of the user's
left-clicks per second and prints that information using Lua's built-in
"print" function. This prints to the terminal. If you don't have a
terminal open, you won't see anything, but the plugin is still running.
All of the functions used here are documented below.

Before we move on, there's a tiny but important detail of this code to
be aware of. Notice how functions like @code{bolt.checkversion} use a
'.', but @code{event:button()} uses a ':'. This is because @code{bolt}
is a simple list of functions, whereas @code{event} is a userdata object
which needs to be passed as the first argument to its functions - that's
true for all types of object in the Bolt API. In Lua, ':' is shorthand
for doing exactly that.

@node Functions
@chapter List of Functions

This is a list of all functions in @code{bolt}, the table returned by
@code{require("bolt")}.

@node functions-apiversion
@section apiversion

Returns the Bolt API major version and minor version, in that order.
Plugins should call this function on startup and, if the major version
is one it doesn't recognise, it should exit by calling `error()`. The
minor version however does not need to be checked, as minor versions
will never contain breaking changes; they may add features, though, and
the minor version can be used to check for the existence of those
features.

For compatibility reasons, there will never be a breaking change to this
function.

@example lua
@verbatim
local major, minor = bolt.apiversion()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-checkversion
@section checkversion

A simple alternative to @ref{functions-apiversion} which calls error()
if either of these conditions is true:

@itemize @bullet
@item the first parameter is not equal to Bolt's major version
@item the second parameter is greater than Bolt's minor version
@end itemize

This function will never return on failure, since that's the
implementation of Lua's error() function. Calling error() in a Bolt
plugin will always be handled by stopping the plugin.

For compatibility reasons, there will never be a breaking change to this
function.

@example lua
@verbatim
bolt.checkversion(1, 0)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-close
@section close

Stops this instance of this plugin. This is essentially the same as the
plugin being stopped via the plugin menu in the launcher.

@example lua
@verbatim
bolt.close()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-time
@section time

Returns a monotonic time as an integer, in microseconds.

This function can be used for timing. The number it returns is arbitrary
- that is, it's the number of microseconds that have elapsed since an
arbitrary point in time - therefore it's not useful for anything other
than to call this function multiple times and compare the results.

Note that on a 32-bit CPU this number will overflow back to 0 every
~4296 seconds, which is slightly more than an hour. On a 64-bit CPU, it
will overflow every ~18 trillion seconds, or around 585 millennia.
Playing on a 32-bit CPU is therefore not advisable, but if a plugin
wishes to support 32-bit CPUs while using this function, it must handle
the possibility of time() resetting to 0.

@example lua
@verbatim
local t1 = bolt.time()
-- something time-consuming...
local t2 = bolt.time()
print(string.format("execution took %s μs", tostring(t2 - t1)))
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-datetime
@section datetime

Returns six integers: the current calendar year, month (1-12), day
(1-31), hour (0-23), minute (0-59), and second (0-60@sup{1}), in
game-time (i.e. UTC). The time is based on the user's system clock but
the result will be converted to game-time. There is no way to get the
user's timezone information via Bolt.

Don't try to use this function for precision timing. Use time() instead.

@example lua
@verbatim
local year, month, day, hour, minute, second = bolt.datetime()
print(string.format(
  "the time is %s:%s:%s on %s-%s-%s",
  tostring(hour), tostring(minute), tostring(second),
  tostring(year), tostring(month), tostring(day)
))
@end verbatim
@end example

(@sup{1} seconds value can be 60 in the case of a leap-second)

@node functions-weekday
@section weekday

Returns an integer representing the current weekday in game-time (i.e.
UTC). A value of 1 represents Sunday, 2 represents Monday, 3 represents
Tuesday, and so on.

This function is based on the user's system clock but the result will be
converted to game-time. For example, if the user's system time is 22:00
EST on a monday, this function will return 3 (tuesday), because the
game-time is 03:00 on a tuesday. There is no way to get the user's
timezone information via Bolt.

@example lua
@verbatim
local function isweekend()
  local day = bolt.weekday()
  return day == 1 or day == 7
end
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-loadfile
@section loadfile

Loads the file into a Lua string and returns it. The file will be
located relative to the plugin directory. Either '/' or '\' may be used
as file separators, regardless of OS, and it makes no difference if the
path does or doesn't start with a file separator. In the case of an
error, this function will return nil. The most likely cause of failure
is that the file doesn't exist.

The plugin directory is read-only. For writeable files, use
@ref{functions-saveconfig} and @ref{functions-loadconfig}.

@example lua
@verbatim
local filecontents = bolt.loadfile("data.bin")
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-loadconfig
@section loadconfig

Loads the file into a Lua string and returns it. The file will be
located relative to the plugin's config directory, the exact location of
which depends on the user's OS. Either '/' or '\' may be used as file
separators, regardless of OS, and it makes no difference if the path
does or doesn't start with a file separator. In the case of an error,
this function will return nil. The most likely cause of failure is that
the file doesn't exist.

@example lua
@verbatim
local filecontents = bolt.loadconfig("position.cfg")
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-saveconfig
@section saveconfig

Saves the Lua string in the second parameter into a file identified by
the first parameter. The file will be located relative to the plugin's
config directory, the exact location of which depends on the user's OS.
Either '/' or '\' may be used as file separators, regardless of OS, and
it makes no difference if the path does or doesn't start with a file
separator.

This function returns a boolean: if the file is saved successfully this
function will return true. If not, it will return false. The most likely
cause of failure is that the file already exists and is locked for
writing, such as by the user having it open in a text editor.

@example lua
@verbatim
bolt.saveconfig("info.bin", "Some example file contents")
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-createsurface
@section createsurface

Creates and returns a new @ref{objects-surface,,Surface object} with
the given width and height. The surface will initally be fully
transparent.

@example lua
@verbatim
local mysurface = bolt.createsurface(800, 608)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-createsurfacefromrgba
@section createsurfacefromrgba

Creates and returns a new @ref{objects-surface,,Surface object} with
the given width, height, and RGBA data. The data can be a string or a
@ref{objects-buffer,,Buffer object}.

There are four bytes in an RGBA pixel, so the number of bytes in the
data is expected to be @code{4 * width * height}. If fewer bytes than
that are provided, the data will be padded with zeroes. If too many
bytes are provided, the excess data will be unused. The data will be
interpreted in row-major order with the first pixel being in the
top-left.

The following example creates a 2x2-pixel surface with a
diagonally-opposite pattern of black and white pixels.

@example lua
@verbatim
local blackpixel = "\x00\x00\x00\xFF"
local whitepixel = "\xFF\xFF\xFF\xFF"
local rgba = blackpixel .. whitepixel .. whitepixel .. blackpixel
local mysurface = bolt.createsurfacefromrgba(2, 2, rgba)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-createsurfacefrompng
@section createsurfacefrompng

Creates and returns a new @ref{objects-surface,,Surface object} from
the PNG file at the given path.

The path will be interpreted similarly to require(), i.e. relative to
the plugin directory, using '.' as file separators, and must not include
the ".png" extension (this is appended automatically). This function
will call `error()` if the file does not exist or is inaccessible for
any reason.

The surface will have the same width and height as the image. As with
@ref{functions-createsurface,,createsurface}, the width and height of
your PNG file should be integral powers of 2.

The following example creates a surface from "images/icon.png" relative
to the plugin directory.

@example lua
@verbatim
local mysurface = bolt.createsurfacefrompng(800, 608, "images.icon")
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-createwindow
@section createwindow

Creates and returns a new @ref{objects-window,,Window object} with the
given initial values for x, y, width and height. The x and y relate to
the top-left corner of the game. Embedded windows can capture mouse and
keyboard events, and can be drawn onto like a @ref{objects-surface,,
Surface}.

The following example creates a window with its top-left corner 50px
from the left and 60px from the top of the game, with a width of 800 and
a height of 608. @ref{window-clear,,clear} is used to make the window
entirely red and opaque, otherwise it would be transparent.

@example lua
@verbatim
local mywindow = bolt.createwindow(50, 60, 800, 608)
mywindow:clear(1, 0, 0)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-createbrowser
@section createbrowser

Creates and returns a new @ref{objects-browser,,Browser object} with
the given initial values for width, height, and URL. If the URL begins
with "file://", it will be interpreted as a file path relative to the
plugin directory, and must use '/' as file separators (if any).
Otherwise, it will be treated as a URL of an internet website. The same
rules go for any navigations or fetch requests made by the browser
during its lifetime.

@example lua
@verbatim
local mybrowser = bolt.createwindow(800, 608, "https://bolt.adamcake.com")
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-createembeddedbrowser
@section createembeddedbrowser

Creates and returns a new @ref{objects-embeddedbrowser,,Embedded
Browser Object} with the given initial values for x, y, width, height
and URL. If the URL begins with "file://", it will be interpreted as a
file path relative to the plugin directory, and must use '/' as file
separators (if any). Otherwise, it will be treated as a URL of an
internet website. The same rules go for any navigations or fetch
requests made by the browser during its lifetime.

@example lua
@verbatim
local mybrowser = bolt.createembeddedbrowser(50, 60, 800, 608, "https://bolt.adamcake.com")
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-point
@section point

Creates and returns a new @ref{objects-point,,Point Object} from x, y
and z values. Point objects represent a point in 3D space, and have
functions which are useful for 3D space calculations.

@example lua
@verbatim
local mypoint = bolt.point(0, 0, 0)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-createbuffer
@section createbuffer

Creates and returns a new @ref{objects-buffer,,Buffer Object} with the
given size. Buffer objects are fixed-size and useful for passing large
amounts of binary data to functions.

@example lua
@verbatim
local mybuffer = bolt.createbuffer(65536)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node functions-onrender2d
@section onrender2d

Sets an event handler for 2D rendering events. The function will
overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a function, then
any previous event handler will be deleted. See @ref{objects-batch2d,,
Batch2D Event} for documentation on this event object.

@example lua
@verbatim
bolt.onrender2d(function (event)
  -- ...
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node functions-onrender3d
@section onrender3d

Sets an event handler for 3D rendering events. The function will
overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a function, then
any previous event handler will be deleted. See @ref{objects-render3d,,
Render3D Event} for documentation on this event object.

@example lua
@verbatim
bolt.onrender3d(function (event)
  -- ...
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node functions-onminimap
@section onminimap

Sets an event handler for minimap render events. The function will
overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a function, then
any previous event handler will be deleted. See @ref{objects-minimap,,
Minimap Event} for documentation on this event object.

@example lua
@verbatim
bolt.onminimap(function (event)
  -- ...
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node functions-onswapbuffers
@section onswapbuffers

Sets an event handler for swapbuffers events. The function will
overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a function, then
any previous event handler will be deleted. See @ref{objects-swapbuffers
,,Swapbuffers Event} for documentation on this event object.

This event is commonly used as a "sync point", i.e. to ensure that some
Lua code will run at regular intervals.

@example lua
@verbatim
bolt.onswapbuffers(function (event)
  -- ...
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node functions-onmousemotion
@section onmousemotion

Sets an event handler for mouse motion events. The function will
overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a function, then
any previous event handler will be deleted. See @ref{objects-mousemotion
,,Mouse Motion Event} for documentation on this event object.

This will fire only for mouse motion events that are received by the
game. Events received by @ref{objects-window,,Window objects} or
@ref{objects-embeddedbrowser,,Embedded Browser objects} will not be
received by the game, so will not fire this event.

@example lua
@verbatim
bolt.onmousemotion(function (event)
  -- ...
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node functions-onmousebutton
@section onmousebutton

Sets an event handler for mouse button events. The function will
overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a function, then
any previous event handler will be deleted. See @ref{objects-mousebutton
,,Mouse Button Event} for documentation on this event object.

This handler runs immediately after a button is pressed down. When the
button is released, @ref{functions-onmousebuttonup,,onmousebuttonup}
will run.

This will fire only for mouse button events that are received by the
game. Events received by @ref{objects-window,,Window objects} or
@ref{objects-embeddedbrowser,,Embedded Browser objects} will not be
received by the game, so will not fire this event.

@example lua
@verbatim
bolt.onmousebutton(function (event)
  -- ...
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node functions-onmousebuttonup
@section onmousebuttonup

Sets an event handler for mouse button-up events. The function will
overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a function, then
any previous event handler will be deleted. See @ref{objects-mousebutton
,,Mouse Button Event} for documentation on this event object.

This handler runs immediately after a button is released. It shares the
same type of event object as @ref{functions-onmousebutton,,onmousebutton
}.

This will fire only for mouse button events that are received by the
game. Events received by @ref{objects-window,,Window objects} or
@ref{objects-embeddedbrowser,,Embedded Browser objects} will not be
received by the game, so will not fire this event.

@example lua
@verbatim
bolt.onmousebuttonup(function (event)
  -- ...
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node functions-onscroll
@section onscroll

Sets an event handler for mouse scroll events. The function will
overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a function, then
any previous event handler will be deleted. See @ref{objects-scroll,,
Scroll Event} for documentation on this event object.

This will fire only for mouse scroll events that are received by the
game. Events received by @ref{objects-window,,Window objects} or
@ref{objects-embeddedbrowser,,Embedded Browser objects} will not be
received by the game, so will not fire this event.

@example lua
@verbatim
bolt.onscroll(function (event)
  -- ...
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node Objects
@chapter List of Objects

This is a list of all types of userdata object used by the Bolt API. The
objects have various functions associated with them, all of which need
the userdata object as the first parameter. Lua has a shorthand for
this: for example, instead of @code{window.onresize(window, myhandler)},
you can write @code{window:onresize(myhandler)}.

@node objects-surface
@section Surface

A surface is a graphical canvas which can be drawn on with various
rendering functions, and can then be drawn to the user's screen by
calling @ref{surface-drawtoscreen,,drawtoscreen}. The contents will
never be cleared, other than by explicitly calling @ref{surface-clear,,
clear}.

Surface widths and heights should always be integral powers of 2. GPUs
often can't handle other values correctly which will result in
unexpected behaviour.

@node surface-clear
@subsection clear

Deletes any previous contents of the surface and sets it to contain a
single colour and alpha.

Takes up to four parameters in the range 0.0 - 1.0. All parameters to
this function are optional (apart from the surface itself). If none are
provided, the surface will be fully transparent. Otherwise, if alpha is
not provided, it will be assumed to be 1.0.

Note that if an alpha value less than 1 is provided, the
partially-transparent colour will still fully replace the old contents,
rather than blending with them.

@example lua
@verbatim
mysurface:clear() -- transparent
mysurface:clear(1, 0, 0) -- opaque red
mysurface:clear(1, 0, 0, 0.5) -- partially transparent red
@end verbatim
@end example

@node surface-subimage
@subsection subimage

Updates a rectangular section of this surface with the given RGBA pixel
data. The parameters are X, Y, width and height, in pixels, followed by
the RGBA data. The data can be either a string or a @ref{objects-buffer,
,Buffer object}.

There are four bytes in an RGBA pixel, so the number of bytes in the
data is expected to be @code{4 * width * height}. If fewer bytes than
that are provided, the data will be padded with zeroes. If too many
bytes are provided, the excess data will be unused. The data will be
interpreted in row-major order with the first pixel being in the
top-left.

Note that non-opqaue pixels will fully replace the old contents of the
surface, rather than blending with them.

The following example sets the top-left pixel of a surface to a fully
opaque green colour:

@example lua
@verbatim
mysurface:subimage(0, 0, 1, 1, "\x00\x00\xFF\xFF")
@end verbatim
@end example

@node surface-drawtoscreen
@subsection drawtoscreen

Draws a section of the surface directly onto the screen. Parameters are
source X,Y,W,H followed by destination X,Y,W,H, all in pixels. Any
transparency will be blended additively and, if the size of the source
and destination rectangles is different, the image will be scaled
smoothly.

@example lua
@verbatim
mysurface:drawtoscreen(0, 0, 800, 608, 0, 0, 800, 608)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node surface-drawtosurface
@subsection drawtosurface

Draws a section of the surface onto a section of another surface.
Parameters are target surface, then source X,Y,W,H, then destination
X,Y,W,H, all in pixels. Any transparency will be blended additively and,
if the size of the source and destination rectangles is different, the
image will be scaled smoothly.

@example lua
@verbatim
mysurface:drawtosurface(myothersurface, 0, 0, 100, 100, 0, 0, 1920, 1080)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node surface-drawtowindow
@subsection drawtowindow

Draws a section of the surface onto a section of a @ref{objects-window,,
Window Object}. Parameters are target window, then source X,Y,W,H, then
destination X,Y,W,H, all in pixels. Any transparency will be blended
additively and, if the size of the source and destination rectangles is
different, the image will be scaled smoothly.

@example lua
@verbatim
mysurface:drawtowindow(mywindow, 0, 0, 100, 100, 0, 0, 1920, 1080)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node objects-buffer
@section Buffer

A buffer is a fixed-size, pre-allocated block of memory containing
binary data. Functions in Bolt which need binary data as an input can
take either a Lua string or a Buffer object. Functions that return
binary data return strings, because it's more performant and sometimes
more useful.

@node buffer-writeinteger
@subsection writeinteger

Writes an integer into the buffer. The first parameter is the integer to
write, the second is the offset into the buffer where the first byte
should be written, and the third is the number of bytes the integer will
be truncated to. The integer will be written in little-endian.

The following example would result in the first byte of the buffer being
0x39 and the second byte being 0x5.

@example lua
@verbatim
mybuffer:writeinteger(1337, 0, 2)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node buffer-writenumber
@subsection writenumber

Writes a number into the buffer. The first parameter is the number to
write, and the second is the offset into the buffer where the first byte
should be written. The number will be written as a native-endian,
8-byte, double-precision floating point value.

@example lua
@verbatim
mybuffer:writeinteger(1.5, 0)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node buffer-writestring
@subsection writestring

Writes a string into the buffer. The first parameter is the string and
the second is the offset into the buffer where the first byte should be
written. The full length of the string will be copied.

@example lua
@verbatim
mybuffer:writestring("my new buffer contents", 0)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node buffer-writebuffer
@subsection writebuffer

Writes the contents of another buffer into this buffer. The first
parameter is the buffer to be copied from, and the second is the offset
into this buffer where the first byte should be written. The full length
of the source buffer will be copied.

@example lua
@verbatim
mybuffer:writebuffer(myotherbuffer, 0)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node objects-window
@section Window

A window is a rectangle overlaid onto the game window. It has an
internal @ref{objects-surface,,Surface object} which can be rendered to
and will be automatically shown at the window's position. Windows also
capture the user's mouse and keyboard inputs and have callbacks which
can be set to handle those inputs.

The window will initially be transparent, but will still capture mouse
inputs, which will be visually confusing. Make sure to draw something to
the window after creating it when testing this function.

The window contents will be cleared when the window changes size, which
may happen for several reasons. Make sure to redraw in response to a
@ref{window-onreposition,,reposition} event, otherwise your window will
turn invisible.

@node window-close
@subsection close

Closes and destroys the window. This is the only way for a window to be
destroyed, other than the plugin stopping, which will destroy the window
automatically.

Do not use the window again after calling this function on it. No more
events will be received (although it is safe to call this from inside an
event handler.)

@example lua
@verbatim
mywindow:close()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node window-id
@subsection id

Returns an integer which uniquely identifies this window. No other
object will ever have this ID during this instance of the game process,
even if this plugin is stopped and started again.

@example lua
@verbatim
local id = mywindow:id()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node window-size
@subsection size

Returns the width and height of the window.

@example lua
@verbatim
local width, height = mywindow:size()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node window-clear
@subsection clear

Deletes any previous contents of the window and sets it to contain a
single colour and alpha. @xref{surface-clear,,surface:clear}.

@node window-subimage
@subsection subimage

Updates a rectangular subsection of this window with the given RGBA
pixel data. @xref{surface-subimage,,surface:subimage}.

@node window-startreposition
@subsection startreposition

Starts repositioning for this window. This function changes how the
user's "drag" action is processed, and would usually be called from the
@ref{window-onmousebutton,,onmousebutton} callback for the left mouse
button. Repositioning will occur until the user releases the left mouse
button or until the repositioning is cancelled. In the first case, an
onreposition event will be fired (even if the size and position din't
actually change.) During repositioning, all mouse events will be handled
internally by the window, without calling its event handlers. The window
will not actually change size or position until repositioning ends by
the user releasing the mouse button.

This function takes two integer parameters. The first should be negative
if the window's left edge is being dragged, positive if the right edge
is being dragged, or zero if neither. The second should be negative if
the window's top edge is being dragged, positive if the bottom edge is
being dragged, or zero if neither. If both parameterss are zero then the
window will be moved instead of resized.

The following example would cause the window to be dragged by its
top-right edge:

@example lua
@verbatim
mywindow:startreposition(1, -1)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node window-cancelreposition
@subsection cancelreposition

Cancels repositioning for this window. The window's position and size
will not change and an onreposition event will not be sent.

@example lua
@verbatim
mywindow:cancelreposition()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node window-onreposition
@subsection onreposition

Sets an event handler for this window for reposition events. The
function will overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a
function, then any previous event handler will be deleted. See
@ref{objects-reposition,,Reposition Event} for documentation on this
event object.

@example lua
@verbatim
mywindow:onreposition(function (event)
  -- ...
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node window-onmousemotion
@subsection onmousemotion

Sets an event handler for this window for mouse motion events. The
function will overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a
function, then any previous event handler will be deleted. See
@ref{objects-mousemotion,,Mouse Motion Event} for documentation on this
event object.

@example lua
@verbatim
mywindow:onmousemotion(function (event)
  -- ...
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node window-onmousebutton
@subsection onmousebutton

Sets an event handler for this window for mouse button events. The
function will overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a
function, then any previous event handler will be deleted. See
@ref{objects-mousebutton,,Mouse Button Event} for documentation on this
event object.

This handler runs immediately after a button is pressed down. When the
button is released, @ref{window-onmousebuttonup,,onmousebuttonup} will
run.

@example lua
@verbatim
mywindow:onmousebutton(function (event)
  -- ...
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node window-onmousebuttonup
@subsection onmousebuttonup

Sets an event handler for this window for mouse button-up events. The
function will overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a
function, then any previous event handler will be deleted. See
@ref{objects-mousebutton,,Mouse Button Event} for documentation on this
event object.

This handler runs immediately after a button is released. It shares the
same type of event object as @ref{window-onmousebutton,,onmousebutton}.
If the user clicks the window and drags their mouse outside the window,
the mouse motion events and button-up will still usually be captured by
the window.

@example lua
@verbatim
mywindow:onmousebuttonup(function (event)
  -- ...
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node window-onscroll
@subsection onscroll

Sets an event handler for this window for mouse scroll events. The
function will overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a
function, then any previous event handler will be deleted. See
@ref{objects-scroll,,Scroll Event} for documentation on this event
object.

@example lua
@verbatim
mywindow:onscroll(function (event)
  -- ...
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node window-onmouseleave
@subsection onmouseleave

Sets an event handler for this window for mouse leave events. The
function will overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a
function, then any previous event handler will be deleted. See
@ref{objects-mouseleave,,Mouse Leave Event} for documentation on this event
object.

@example lua
@verbatim
mywindow:onmouseleave(function (event)
  -- ...
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node objects-browser
@section Browser

A browser object is a webview in an external OS-level window. It's a
chromium-based browser backed by CEF. The browser takes up the whole
window - there are no decorations like tabs or a URL bar or back button,
etc. The browser can navigate or fetch normal internet URLs via
@code{https://}, or files in the plugin directory with @code{file://}.
It can also request certain URLs at @code{https://bolt-api/} to
communicate with the Lua code running in the game process. Incoming
messages will be sent via the JavaScript @code{window.postMessage}
function.

@node browser-close
@subsection close

Closes and destroys the browser. This is the only way for a browser to
be destroyed, other than the plugin stopping, which will destroy the
browser automatically.

Do not use the browser again after calling this function on it. No more
events will be received (although it is safe to call this from inside an
event handler.)

@example lua
@verbatim
mybrowser:close()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node browser-sendmessage
@subsection sendmessage

Sends a message to the browser. The data can be either a string or a
@ref{objects-buffer,,Buffer object}. It will be sent to the browser
using the postMessage function, so to handle it in your browser
application, just add an event listener for "message" to the window
object. The event's data will be an object with "type": "pluginMessage",
and "content" will be an ArrayBuffer containing the Lua string that was
passed to this function. Note that the binary data will be transferred
exactly as it appeared in Lua, byte-for-byte - it will not be decoded or
re-encoded in any way.

@example lua
@verbatim
mybrowser:sendmessage("some message contents")
@end verbatim
@end example

@node browser-enablecapture
@subsection enablecapture

Enables screen capture for this browser. The screen contents will be
sent to the browser using the postMessage function. The event's data
will be an object with "type": "screenCapture", "width" and "height"
will be integers indicating the size of the captured area, and "content"
will be an ArrayBuffer of length @code{width * height * 3}. The contents
will be three bytes per pixel, in RGB format, in row-major order,
starting with the bottom-left pixel.

The data will be sent using a shared memory mapping, so the overhead is
much lower than it would be to send all the data using sendmessage.
However, downloading screen contents from the GPU will still slow the
game down (takes around 2 to 5 milliseconds depending on window size),
so Bolt will limit itself to capturing 4 frames per second via this
function.

@example lua
@verbatim
mybrowser:enablecapture()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node browser-disablecapture
@subsection disablecapture

Disables screen capture for this browser. @xref{browser-enablecapture,,
enablecapture}.

@example lua
@verbatim
mybrowser:disablecapture()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node browser-oncloserequest
@subsection oncloserequest

Sets an event handler for this browser for close-request events. The
function will overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a
function, then any previous event handler will be deleted. Unlike most
event handlers, this one is called with no parameters.

Bolt takes no default action other than calling this function, which
means nothing will happen by default when the user tries to close the
browser. To enable normal closing behaviour, add a closerequest handler
which calls @code{mybrowser:close()}:

@example lua
@verbatim
mybrowser:oncloserequest(function ()
  mybrowser:close()
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node browser-onmessage
@subsection onmessage

Sets an event handler for this browser for message events. The function
will overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a function,
then any previous event handler will be deleted. The function will be
called with a string as the only parameter. The string will contain the
binary data that was sent in the browser's POST message.

@example lua
@verbatim
mybrowser:onmessage(function (message)
  print(string.format("message received: %s", message))
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

Note that this example assumes that the message is safely formattable
text. This may or may not be the case, depending on what your browser's
web page is programmed to send.

@node objects-embeddedbrowser
@section Embedded Browser

An embedded browser object is a webview embedded into the game window.
It behaves similarly to a @ref{objects-window,,Window object}, but with
more state, and most of the normal events of a Window object are handled
internally by the browser.

The browser is chromium-based, backed by CEF. The webview takes up the
whole rectangle - there are no decorations like tabs or a URL bar or
back button, etc. The browser can navigate or fetch normal internet URLs
via @code{https://}, or files in the plugin directory with
@code{file://}. It can also request certain URLs at
@code{https://bolt-api/} to communicate with the Lua code running in the
game process. Incoming messages will be sent via the JavaScript
@code{window.postMessage} function.

@node embeddedbrowser-close
@subsection close

Closes and destroys the browser. This is the only way for a browser to
be destroyed, other than the plugin stopping, which will destroy the
browser automatically.

Do not use the browser again after calling this function on it. No more
events will be received (although it is safe to call this from inside an
event handler.)

@example lua
@verbatim
mybrowser:close()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node embeddedbrowser-sendmessage
@subsection sendmessage

Sends a message to the browser. @xref{browser-sendmessage,,
browser:sendmessage}.

@node embeddedbrowser-startreposition
@subsection startreposition

Starts repositioning for this browser. @xref{window-startreposition,,
window:startreposition}.

@node embeddedbrowser-cancelreposition
@subsection cancelreposition

Cancels repositioning for this browser. @xref{window-cancelreposition,,
window:cancelreposition}.

@node embeddedbrowser-enablecapture
@subsection enablecapture

Enables screen capture for this browser. @xref{browser-enablecapture,,
enablecapture}.

@node embeddedbrowser-disablecapture
@subsection disablecapture

Disables screen capture for this browser. @xref{browser-enablecapture,,
enablecapture}.

@node embeddedbrowser-oncloserequest
@subsection oncloserequest

Sets an event handler for this browser for close-request events. The
function will overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a
function, then any previous event handler will be deleted. Unlike most
event handlers, this one is called with no parameters.

Bolt takes no default action other than calling this function, which
means nothing will happen by default when the user tries to close the
browser. To enable normal closing behaviour, add a closerequest handler
which calls @code{myembeddedbrowser:close()}:

@example lua
@verbatim
myembeddedbrowser:oncloserequest(function ()
  myembeddedbrowser:close()
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node embeddedbrowser-onmessage
@subsection onmessage

Sets an event handler for this browser for message events. The function
will overwrite any previous event handler, or, if it's not a function,
then any previous event handler will be deleted. The function will be
called with a string as the only parameter. The string will contain the
binary data that was sent in the browser's POST message.

@example lua
@verbatim
myembeddedbrowser:onmessage(function (message)
  print(string.format("message received: %s", message))
end)
@end verbatim
@end example

Note that this example assumes that the message is safely formattable
text. This may or may not be the case, depending on what your browser's
web page is programmed to send.

@node objects-point
@section Point

A Point object represents a point in 3D space. It's mainly useful for
doing transformation calculations with @ref{objects-transform,,
Transform Objects}, to find, for example, the pixel coordinates on the
user's screen where a certain vertex is currently being rendered.

@node point-transform
@subsection transform

Transforms this Point by a Transform object and returns a new Point. The
original Point object is not modified.

@node point-get
@subsection get

Returns the X, Y and Z values for this point.

@node point-aspixels
@subsection aspixels

For a point that's been transformed into 3D screen space, this function
returns its X and Y in pixels, with (0, 0) being the top-left of the
game.

This is only useful for a point in model coordinates that has been
transformed by a @ref{render3d-modelmatrix,,model matrix}, then by a
@ref{render3d-viewprojmatrix,,viewproj matrix}. In any other case the
result will probably not be meaningful.

@node objects-transform
@section Transform

A transform represents a 4x4 transformation matrix. There's no way to
create a transform directly, they can only be obtained by querying
@ref{objects-render3d,,Render3D Objects}. They're useful for
transforming points from model coordinates into world coordinates or
screen pixel coordinates.

@node transform-decompose
@subsection decompose

Decomposes the transform into the following nine constituent values, in
this order: X, Y, Z, in model coordinates; scale factor X, Y and Z;
yaw, pitch, roll, in radians.

Matrix decomposition is an experimental feature. It assumes the
right-most column of the matrix to be (0, 0, 0, 1). That will always be
the case in transforms returned by @ref{render3d-boneanimation,,
boneanimation}, which is the primary intended use of this function.

@example lua
@verbatim
local x, y, z, xscale, yscale, zscale, yaw, pitch, roll = mytransform:decompose()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node transform-get
@subsection get

Returns the 16 floating-point values that make up this transformation
matrix, in row-major order.

@example lua
@verbatim
local m1,  m2,  m3,  m4,
      m5,  m6,  m7,  m8,
      m9,  m10, m11, m12,
      m13, m14, m15, m16 = mytransform:get()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node objects-batch2d
@section Batch2D Event

A Batch2D event comes from @ref{functions-onrender2d,,onrender2d}. It
occurs when the game draws a batch of 2D icons to the screen. 2D icon
renders are uploaded to the GPU in batches rather than one-at-a-time, so
to look for an individual image, you'll need to iterate through each
individual image in the batch, by iterating through the vertices. The
number of vertices per image is usually 6 (i.e. two polygons) but it's
recommended to call @ref{batch2d-verticesperimage,,verticesperimage} to
get this number instead of hard-coding it into your plugin.

A Batch2D will only ever have one texture associated with it - a large
surface, usually 8192x8192, with a lot of rectangular images on it. This
is commonly called a "texture atlas". Each vertex has associated data
which points to a rectangular section of that texture. This can be
queried to find the exact pixel contents of the image being drawn.

When querying vertex data, keep in mind that Lua indices start at 1, so
the valid range is 1 to vertexcount, inclusive:

@example lua
@verbatim
for i in 1, event:vertexcount() do
-- ...
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node batch2d-vertexcount
@subsection vertexcount

Returns the number of vertices in a 2D batch object. Divide by
@ref{batch2d-verticesperimage,,verticesperimage} to get the number of
icons being rendered.

@node batch2d-verticesperimage
@subsection verticesperimage

Returns the number of vertices per individual image in this batch. At
time of writing, this will always return 6 (i.e. enough to draw two
separate triangles). To future-proof against possible engine updates,
it's recommended to use this function instead of hard-coding the number
6 into your plugin.

@node batch2d-isminimap
@subsection isminimap

Returns true if this render targets the minimap surface instead of the
user interface. There will usually be a maximum of one batch per frame
targeting the minimap surface. Renders that target the minimap will
overlay icons onto the static map image.

@node batch2d-targetsize
@subsection targetsize

Returns the width and height of the target area of this render, in
pixels.

If @ref{batch2d-isminimap,,isminimap} is true, this will be the size of
the minimap surface - usually 256x256. Otherwise, this will be
proportional to the size of the inner area of the game window - that is,
if the user has an interface scaling other than 100%, it will be bigger
or smaller than that area, proportionally.

@node batch2d-vertexxy
@subsection vertexxy

Given an index of a vertex in a batch, returns its X and Y position on
the screen, in pixel coordinates.

@node batch2d-vertexatlasxy
@subsection vertexatlasxy

Given an index of a vertex in a batch, returns the X and Y of its
associated image in the batch's texture atlas, in pixel coordinates.

@node batch2d-vertexatlaswh
@subsection vertexatlaswh

Given an index of a vertex in a batch, returns the width and height of
its associated image in the batch's texture atlas, in pixel coordinates.

@node batch2d-vertexuv
@subsection vertexuv

Given an index of a vertex in a batch, returns the vertex's associated
"UV" coordinates.

The values will be floating-point numbers in the range 0.0 - 1.0. They
are relative to image in the texture atlas.

@node batch2d-vertexcolour
@subsection vertexcolour

Given an index of a vertex in a batch, returns the red, green, blue and
alpha values for that vertex, in that order. All four values will be
floating-point numbers in the range 0.0 - 1.0.

These values are multiplied with the texture, so values less than 1.0
will darken the texture. A common use for this is to draw coloured text.

@node batch2d-vertexcolor
@subsection vertexcolor

Alias for @ref{batch2d-vertexcolour,,vertexcolour}

@node batch2d-textureid
@subsection textureid

Returns the unique ID of the texture associated with this render. There
will always be one (and only one) texture atlas associated with a 2D
render batch.

The plugin API does not have a way to get a texture by its ID; this is
intentional, as it wouldn't always be safe to do so. The purpose of this
function is to be able to compare texture IDs together to check if the
current texture is the same one that was used in a previous render.

@node batch2d-texturesize
@subsection texturesize

Returns the size of the overall texture atlas associated with this
batch, in pixels.

@node batch2d-texturecompare
@subsection texturecompare

Compares a section of the texture atlas for this batch to some RGBA
pixel data. The data can be a string or a @ref{objects-buffer,,
Buffer object}. The function will return true only if the bytes are an
exact match. It internally uses memcmp from the C library. This means
comparing each set of contiguous data is very fast, but, since the data
needs to be contiguous, it can only be done checked row at a time.

Internally, Bolt compares against data taken from the CPU just before
being uploaded to the GPU, so there will never be any imprecsision
issues caused by different GPUs/drivers/etc.

The example below checks if the pixels at x,y and (x+1),y are fully
opaque and red.

@example lua
@verbatim
mybatch:texturecompare(x, y, "\xFF\x00\x00\xFF\xFF\x00\x00\xFF")
@end verbatim
@end example

Normally the X and Y coordinates should be calculated from
@ref{batch2d-vertexatlasxy,,vertexatlasxy} and
@ref{batch2d-vertexatlaswh,,vertexatlaswh}.

@node batch2d-texturedata
@subsection texturedata

Gets the RGBA data starting at a given coordinate of the texture atlas,
and returns it as a Lua string.

The following example would return an 8-bytes-long string, containing
the RGBA data for two pixels.

@example lua
@verbatim
mybatch:texturedata(x, y, 8)
@end verbatim
@end example

Using this function to search for specific textures isn't recommended as
it would be noticeably slower than using @ref{batch2d-texturecompare,,
texturecompare}.

@node objects-render3d
@section Render3D Event

A Render3D event comes from @ref{functions-onrender3d,,onrender3d}. It
occurs when a 3D model is rendered to the game view. All of the model's
vertex coordinates and texture data can be queried, along with its
animation data if the model is animated.

Bolt has a complex set of functions for doing calculations with 3D space
data. Render3D's @ref{render3d-vertexxyz,,vertexxyz} function returns
static model data which will always be the same for two instances of the
same model even if they're placed differently, scaled or rotated
differently, doing different animations, etc. To get the model's
position in world space, use @ref{render3d-modelmatrix,,modelmatrix}:

@example lua
@verbatim
local modelpoint = myevent:vertexxyz(0)
local worldpoint = modelpoint:transform(myevent:modelmatrix())
@end verbatim
@end example

This gives an X, Y and Z in world coordinates, which can be used to find
its position on the world map. From there, you can use its
@ref{render3d-viewprojmatrix,,viewproj matrix} to find where it will
appear on the user's screen, in pixel coordinates:

@example lua
@verbatim
local pixelx, pixely = worldpoint:transform(myevent:viewprojmatrix()):aspixels()
@end verbatim
@end example

This will give the pixel coordinates at which a static vertex would be
rendered. If the model is animated, you might like to apply its
animation data to the transform to get the vertex's true position.
Animation transforms are per-bone, and each vertex has a bone ID
associated with it which tells the shader which animation transform to
use. An animation transform is from model-space to model-space, so it
must be applied before any of the other transforms.

@example lua
@verbatim
local bone = myevent:vertexbone(0)
local modelpoint = myevent:vertexxyz(0)
local animatedpoint = modelpoint:transform(myevent:boneanimation(bone))
local worldpoint = animatedpoint:transform(myevent:modelmatrix())
@end verbatim
@end example

Like Batch2D events, Render3D events always have exactly one texture
atlas associated with them, but each vertex may be textured with a
different section of that atlas. Unlike Batch2D however, there's an
extra step involved in getting the pixel data associated with a vertex.
The vertex's meta-id must be queried with @ref{render3d-vertexmeta,,
vertexmeta}, then pass the meta-id to @ref{render3d-atlasxywh,,
atlasxywh} to get the correct section of the texture atlas:

@example lua
@verbatim
local mymeta = event:vertexmeta(0)
local x, y, w, h = event:atlasxywh(mymeta)
@end verbatim
@end example

When querying vertex data, keep in mind that Lua indices start at 1, so
the valid range is 1 to vertexcount, inclusive:

@example lua
@verbatim
for i in 1, event:vertexcount() do
-- ...
@end verbatim
@end example

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node render3d-vertexcount
@subsection vertexcount

Returns the number of vertices in a model.

@example lua
@verbatim
local count = event:vertexcount()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node render3d-vertexxyz
@subsection vertexxyz

Given a vertex number, returns a @ref{objects-point,,Point object}
representing the vertex's model coordinates, according to the static
model data.

@example lua
@verbatim
local modelpoint = event:vertexxyz(0)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node render3d-modelmatrix
@subsection modelmatrix

Returns the @ref{objects-transform,,Transform object} representing the
model matrix of the model being rendered. This can be used to transform
points from model coordinates into world coordinates.

@example lua
@verbatim
local modelmatrix = event:modelmatrix()
local modelpoint = event:vertexxyz(0)
local worldpoint = modelpoint:transform(modelmatrix)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node render3d-viewprojmatrix
@subsection viewprojmatrix

Returns the @ref{objects-transform,,Transform object} representing the
combined view and projection matrices, commonly called the "viewproj
matrix", of the model being rendered. This can be used to transform
points from world coordinates into screen coordinates.

@node render3d-vertexmeta
@subsection vertexmeta

Given a vertex number, returns a meta-ID (an integer) relating to its
associated texture image. This can then be passed to
@ref{render3d-atlasxywh,,atlasxywh}.

@example lua
@verbatim
local meta = event:vertexmeta(0)
local x, y, w, h = event:atlasxywh(meta)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node render3d-atlasxywh
@subsection atlasxywh

Given a vertex number, returns the X, Y, width and height of its
associated image in the texture atlas, in pixel coordinates.

@example lua
@verbatim
local meta = event:vertexmeta(0)
local x, y, w, h = event:atlasxywh(meta)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node render3d-vertexuv
@subsection vertexuv

Given a vertex number, returns the vertex's associated "UV" coordinates.

The values will be floating-point numbers in the range 0.0 - 1.0. They
are relative to image in the texture atlas.

@node render3d-vertexcolour
@subsection vertexcolour

Given a vertex number, returns the red, green, blue and alpha values for
that vertex, in that order. All four values will be floating-point
numbers in the range 0.0 - 1.0.

These values are multiplied with the texture, so values less than 1.0
will darken the texture (or make it more transparent in the case of the
alpha channel). A common use for this is to draw differently "tinted"
versions of the same model using the same texture.

@node render3d-vertexcolor
@subsection vertexcolor

Alias for @ref{render3d-vertexcolour,,vertexcolour}

@node render3d-textureid
@subsection textureid

Returns the unique ID of the texture associated with this render. There
will always be one (and only one) texture atlas associated with a 3D
render.

The plugin API does not have a way to get a texture by its ID; this is
intentional, as it wouldn't always be safe to do so. The purpose of this
function is to be able to compare texture IDs together to check if the
current texture is the same one that was used in a previous render.

@node render3d-texturesize
@subsection texturesize

Returns the size of the overall texture atlas associated with this
batch, in pixels.

@node render3d-texturecompare
@subsection texturecompare

Compares a section of the texture atlas for this batch to some RGBA
pixel data. The data can be a string or a @ref{objects-buffer,,
Buffer object}. The function will return true only if the bytes are an
exact match. It internally uses memcmp from the C library. This means
comparing each set of contiguous data is very fast, but, since the data
needs to be contiguous, it can only be done checked row at a time.

Internally, Bolt compares against data taken from the CPU just before
being uploaded to the GPU, so there will never be any imprecsision
issues caused by different GPUs/drivers/etc.

The example below checks if the pixels at x,y and (x+1),y are fully
opaque and red.

@example lua
@verbatim
event:texturecompare(x, y, "\xFF\x00\x00\xFF\xFF\x00\x00\xFF")
@end verbatim
@end example

Normally the X and Y coordinates should be calculated from
@ref{render3d-atlasxywh,,atlasxywh}.

@node render3d-texturedata
@subsection texturedata

Gets the RGBA data starting at a given coordinate of the texture atlas,
and returns it as a Lua string.

The following example would return an 8-bytes-long string, containing
the RGBA data for two pixels.

@example lua
@verbatim
mybatch:texturedata(x, y, 8)
@end verbatim
@end example

Using this function to search for specific textures isn't recommended as
it would be noticeably slower than using @ref{render3d-texturecompare,,
texturecompare}.

@node render3d-vertexbone
@subsection vertexbone

Given a vertex number, returns its bone ID. Animated models have
multiple bones which can move independently of each other, and this
function can be used to find out which bone a vertex belongs to. The
returned value may be any integer from 0 to 255, although the game
engine actually seems to be unable to handle indices higher than 128.
(128 itself is valid.)

All vertices have bone IDs, even in non-animated models, so plugins may
call this function regardless of whether the model is animated or not.
For a non-animated model the bone ID seems to be meaningless and is
usually 0. To check if the model is animated, see
@ref{render3d-animated,,animated}.

@example lua
@verbatim
local bone = event:vertexbone(0)
@end verbatim
@end example

@node render3d-boneanimation
@subsection boneanimation

Given a bone ID, returns the Transform object that would be applied to
its static model, in model coordinates, to transform it into its current
animated position.

It's a fatal error to call this function on a render event for a
non-animated model, since non-animated models have no bone transforms
that could be queried. To check if the model is animated, use
@ref{render3d-animated,,animated}.

@node render3d-animated
@subsection animated

Returns a boolean value indicating whether this model is animated.
Animated models can have multiple bones which can move independently of
each other. If this function returns false, then the model has no
animation data, and calling @ref{render3d-boneanimation,,boneanimation}
will result in an error.

@example lua
@verbatim
if event:animated() then
  -- it's safe to call event:boneanimation
end
@end verbatim
@end example

@node objects-minimap
@section Minimap Event

A Minimap event comes from @ref{functions-onminimap}. It occurs when the
minimap gets drawn to the game view. This happens once per frame, unless
the minimap isn't visible. The event can be queried for some useful
information like the angle it's rotated to and the world position it's
centered on.

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node minimap-angle
@subsection angle

Returns the angle at which the minimap background image is being
rendered, in radians. The angle is 0 when upright (facing directly
north), and increases counter-clockwise (note that turning the camera
clockwise rotates the minimap counter-clockwise and vice versa).

@node minimap-scale
@subsection scale

Returns the scale at which the minimap background image is being
rendered. This indicates how far in or out the minimap is zoomed. It
appears to be capped between roughly 0.5 and 3.5.

@node minimap-position
@subsection position

Returns an estimate of the X and Y position the minimap is centered on,
in world coordinates. This is only a rough estimate and can move around
a lot even while standing still. It usually doesn't vary by more than
half a tile.

@node objects-swapbuffers
@section SwapBuffers event

A SwapBuffers event comes from @ref{functions-onswapbuffers,,
onswapbuffers}. It occurs at the end of a frame (and the beginning of a
new frame), so anywhere from 5 to 200+ times per second depending on the
user's FPS. It's commonly used as a "sync point", i.e. to ensure that
some Lua code will run at regular intervals. The event object is a
userdata but has no functions.

Unlike other events in the Bolt API, which fire immediately after the
event in question has happened, SwapBuffers events fire immediately
before the buffers are actually swapped. This means any rendering done
in a SwapBuffers event will be immediately visible on the current frame.

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node objects-reposition
@section Reposition Event

A Reposition event comes from @ref{window-onreposition,,onreposition}.
It indicates that the size or position of a @ref{objects-window,,Window
object} has changed. This could happen for several reasons, such as the
game window being resized, so don't assume that it won't happen.

@ref{reposition-didresize,,didresize} can be used to check if the window
size changed. If it did, the window contents have been cleared to
transparent and must be redrawn.

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node reposition-xywh
@subsection xywh

Returns the new x, y, width and height that the window was repositioned
to.

@example
@verbatim
local newx, newy, newwidth, newheight = event:xywh()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node reposition-didresize
@subsection didresize

Returns a boolean value indicating whether the window changed size. If
true, the contents of the window were cleared and need to be redrawn.

@example
@verbatim
if event:didresize() then
  -- re-draw something to the window
end
@end verbatim
@end example

@node objects-mousemotion
@section Mouse Motion Event

A Mouse Motion event comes from @ref{functions-onmousemotion,,
bolt.onmousemotion} or @ref{window-onmousemotion,,window:onmousemotion}.
It occurs when the mouse moves while inside the game window. Each window
or embedded browser can only receive one mouse motion event per frame -
the latest position will always be sent, but some position updates in
between will be dropped. The same goes for @ref{functions-onmousemotion,
,bolt.onmousemotion}.

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node mousemotion-xy
@subsection xy

Returns the x and y for this mouse event in pixels, relative to the
top-left of the window that it relates to.

@example
@verbatim
local x, y = event:xy()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousemotion-ctrl
@subsection ctrl

Returns a boolean value indicating whether @code{ctrl} was held when
this event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local ctrl = event:ctrl()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousemotion-shift
@subsection shift

Returns a boolean value indicating whether @code{shift} was held when
this event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local shift = event:shift()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousemotion-meta
@subsection meta

Returns a boolean value indicating whether the meta key (also known as
super, command, or the "windows key") was held when this event was
fired.

@example
@verbatim
local meta = event:meta()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousemotion-alt
@subsection alt

Returns a boolean value indicating whether @code{alt} was held when this
event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local alt = event:alt()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousemotion-capslock
@subsection capslock

Returns a boolean value indicating whether caps lock was on when this
event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local capslock = event:capslock()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousemotion-numlock
@subsection numlock

Returns a boolean value indicating whether numlock was on when this
event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local numlock = event:numlock()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousemotion-mousebuttons
@subsection mousebuttons

Returns three boolean values indicating whether each primary mouse
button was held when this event fired, in the order: left, right,
middle.

@example
@verbatim
local lmb, rmb, mmb = event:buttons()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node objects-mousebutton
@section Mouse Button Event

A Mouse Button event comes from @ref{functions-onmousebutton,,
bolt.onmousebutton}, @ref{functions-onmousebuttonup,,
bolt.onmousebuttonup}, @ref{window-onmousebutton,,
window:onmousebutton}, or @ref{window-onmousebuttonup,,
window:onmousebuttonup}. It occurs when one of the three primary mouse
buttons is pressed or released. The action of pressing a mouse button
will be captured by the window or embedded browser under the mouse at
the time. In the case of the left mouse button, the button-up event will
usually be captured by the window that was clicked on, as well as any
mouse motion events that happen between the press and release.

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node mousebutton-xy
@subsection xy

Returns the x and y for this mouse event in pixels, relative to the
top-left of the window that it relates to.

@example
@verbatim
local x, y = event:xy()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousebutton-ctrl
@subsection ctrl

Returns a boolean value indicating whether @code{ctrl} was held when
this event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local ctrl = event:ctrl()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousebutton-shift
@subsection shift

Returns a boolean value indicating whether @code{shift} was held when
this event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local shift = event:shift()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousebutton-meta
@subsection meta

Returns a boolean value indicating whether the meta key (also known as
super, command, or the "windows key") was held when this event was
fired.

@example
@verbatim
local meta = event:meta()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousebutton-alt
@subsection alt

Returns a boolean value indicating whether @code{alt} was held when this
event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local alt = event:alt()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousebutton-capslock
@subsection capslock

Returns a boolean value indicating whether caps lock was on when this
event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local capslock = event:capslock()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousebutton-numlock
@subsection numlock

Returns a boolean value indicating whether numlock was on when this
event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local numlock = event:numlock()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousebutton-mousebuttons
@subsection mousebuttons

Returns three boolean values indicating whether each primary mouse
button was held when this event fired, in the order: left, right,
middle.

@example
@verbatim
local lmb, rmb, mmb = event:buttons()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mousebutton-button
@subsection button

Returns an integer representing the mouse button that was pressed or
released. Possible values are 1 for the left mouse button, 2 for the
right mouse button, and 3 for the middle mouse button (clicking the
mouse wheel).

@node objects-scroll
@section Scroll Event

A Scroll event comes from @ref{functions-onscroll,,bolt.onscroll} or
@ref{window-onscroll,,window:onscroll}. It occurs when the user scrolls
their mouse wheel while the mouse is inside the game window.

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node scroll-xy
@subsection xy

Returns the x and y for this mouse event in pixels, relative to the
top-left of the window that it relates to.

@example
@verbatim
local x, y = event:xy()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node scroll-ctrl
@subsection ctrl

Returns a boolean value indicating whether @code{ctrl} was held when
this event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local ctrl = event:ctrl()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node scroll-shift
@subsection shift

Returns a boolean value indicating whether @code{shift} was held when
this event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local shift = event:shift()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node scroll-meta
@subsection meta

Returns a boolean value indicating whether the meta key (also known as
super, command, or the "windows key") was held when this event was
fired.

@example
@verbatim
local meta = event:meta()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node scroll-alt
@subsection alt

Returns a boolean value indicating whether @code{alt} was held when this
event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local alt = event:alt()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node scroll-capslock
@subsection capslock

Returns a boolean value indicating whether caps lock was on when this
event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local capslock = event:capslock()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node scroll-numlock
@subsection numlock

Returns a boolean value indicating whether numlock was on when this
event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local numlock = event:numlock()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node scroll-mousebuttons
@subsection mousebuttons

Returns three boolean values indicating whether each primary mouse
button was held when this event fired, in the order: left, right,
middle.

@example
@verbatim
local lmb, rmb, mmb = event:buttons()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node scroll-direction
@subsection direction

Returns a boolean value representing the scroll direction. False means
scrolling down, toward the user, and true means scrolling up, away from
the user.

@example
@verbatim
local direction = event:direction()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node objects-mouseleave
@section Mouse Leave Event

A Mouse Leave event comes from @ref{window-onmouseleave,,
window:onmouseleave}. It occurs when the user moves their mouse such
that it's no longer inside the window or embedded browser.

It's @strong{not safe} to use an event object after the event handler
has returned.

@node mouseleave-xy
@subsection xy

Returns the x and y for this mouse event in pixels, relative to the
top-left of the window that it relates to.

@example
@verbatim
local x, y = event:xy()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mouseleave-ctrl
@subsection ctrl

Returns a boolean value indicating whether @code{ctrl} was held when
this event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local ctrl = event:ctrl()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mouseleave-shift
@subsection shift

Returns a boolean value indicating whether @code{shift} was held when
this event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local shift = event:shift()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mouseleave-meta
@subsection meta

Returns a boolean value indicating whether the meta key (also known as
super, command, or the "windows key") was held when this event was
fired.

@example
@verbatim
local meta = event:meta()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mouseleave-alt
@subsection alt

Returns a boolean value indicating whether @code{alt} was held when this
event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local alt = event:alt()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mouseleave-capslock
@subsection capslock

Returns a boolean value indicating whether caps lock was on when this
event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local capslock = event:capslock()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mouseleave-numlock
@subsection numlock

Returns a boolean value indicating whether numlock was on when this
event was fired.

@example
@verbatim
local numlock = event:numlock()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node mouseleave-mousebuttons
@subsection mousebuttons

Returns three boolean values indicating whether each primary mouse
button was held when this event fired, in the order: left, right,
middle.

@example
@verbatim
local lmb, rmb, mmb = event:buttons()
@end verbatim
@end example

@node browser-apis
@chapter Browser APIs

Browser objects and embedded browser objects have access to a few APIs
which are primarily used for communicating with the Lua code running in
the game process. Incoming messages will be via the JavaScript
@code{window.postMessage} function, so can be handled like so:

@example js
@verbatim
window.addEventListener('message', async (event) => {
  if (typeof(event.data) !== "object") return;
  // check event.data.type...
});
@end verbatim
@end example

APIs invoked by the web page itself are accessed by making a web request
to @code{https://bolt-api/}, as shown in the examples for the relevant
API endpoints.

Browsers and embedded browsers have no @code{window.close()} function,
as one would usually find in JavaScript in a web page. This function
doesn't work correctly in CEF so it has been disabled. Pages that want
to self-close must use the @ref{browserapis-close-request,,
/close-request API} instead.

@node browserapis-pluginmessage
@section pluginMessage

A message has been received from the Lua sendmessage function being
called on this Browser or Embedded Browser object.
@code{event.data.content} is an ArrayBuffer containing the binary data
that was passed to the function.

@example js
@verbatim
window.addEventListener('message', async (event) => {
  if (typeof(event.data) !== "object") return;
  if (event.data.type === "pluginMessage") {
    const message = (new TextDecoder()).decode(event.data.content);
    console.log(message);
  }
});
@end verbatim
@end example

Note that this example assumes that the message is safely formattable
text. This may or may not be the case, depending on what your plugin is
programmed to send.

@node browserapis-screencapture
@section screenCapture

Screen capture is currently enabled for this browser, and a new screen
capture has been received. @code{event.data.width} and
@code{event.data.height} are the width and height of the image in
pixels, and @code{event.data.content} is an ArrayBuffer of length
@code{width * height * 3}, containing the RGB pixel data.

@example js
@verbatim
window.addEventListener('message', async (event) => {
  if (typeof(event.data) !== "object") return;
  if (event.data.type === "screenCapture") {
    console.log(`got screen capture ${event.data.width}x${event.data.height}`);
  }
});
@end verbatim
@end example

@node browserapis-send-message
@section /send-message

A POST to this URL will result in an onmessage event being fired for the
relevant browser object or embedded browser object in Lua. The POST body
will be sent as-is, byte-for-byte, without being decoded or re-encoded
in any way.

@example js
@verbatim
fetch("https://bolt-api/send-message", {method: 'POST', body: 'some message contents'});
@end verbatim
@end example

@node browserapis-close-request
@section /close-request

A request to this URL will result in an oncloserequest event being fired
for the browser object in Lua, as if the user had clicked the 'X' button
on the window. This doesn't actually close the window; if the Lua object
has no event handler for close requests then nothing will happen.

@example js
@verbatim
fetch("https://bolt-api/close-request");
@end verbatim
@end example

@node browserapis-start-reposition
@section /start-reposition

@xref{embeddedbrowser-startreposition}. The query should contain two
params, "h" and "v", for the horizontal and vertical components,
respectively. This should usually be done in response to a JavaScript
onmousedown event for the left mouse button. This has no effect on
Browser objects, which are not embedded into the game window.

The following example would cause the window to be dragged by its
top-right edge:

@example js
@verbatim
fetch("https://bolt-api/start-reposition?h=1&v=-1");
@end verbatim
@end example

@node browserapis-cancel-reposition
@section /cancel-reposition

@xref{embeddedbrowser-cancelreposition}. This has no effect on Browser
objects, which are not embedded into the game window.

@example js
@verbatim
fetch("https://bolt-api/cancel-reposition");
@end verbatim
@end example

@node appendix-world-coordinates
@appendix Note on world coordinates

Some of the Render3D and Minimap functions refer to "world coordinates".
These refer to an actual position in the world, at a scale of 512 units
per tile, increasing towards the east and north, and decreasing towards
the west and south.

@bye
